hello everyone welcome to the fifth
angel Ganga Q&A before the weekend I
reached the fifty thousand subscriber
mark on this channel when I started back
in January I would never had expected
that this channel would reach this magic
number so quickly or at all I just want
to say thanks for your views likes
shares hitting that subscribe button and
bail and donating through patreon and
PayPal speaking of which I want to thank
William Emma boomer and video insights
for supporting me on patreon this helps
me to keep this project sustainable and
I appreciate it very much I will
dedicate this public UA to a question I
got from once a month who is a patreon
supporter he asked me if it makes sense
to be politically active and vote
participate in pacifist strikes or
aggressive revolts after all stoicism
teaches us not to focus on things that
are not in our control so how do Stoics
deal with politics social dilemmas in
justices etc this is great material for
further investigation for simplicity's
sake I've narrowed it down to one simple
question can Stoics be activists
I think it's important to mention that
stoicism is more than being indifferent
or detached and not caring what other
people think
although reaching a state of equanimity
is a part of the stoic experience the
intention of the philosophy is not to be
indifferent towards in Justices or to be
fatalistic stoicism keeps morals and
ethics in high regard leaving our
surroundings at the mercy of injustice
even though we have the possibility to
intervene is quite immoral and not a
stoic thing to do my apologies if I'm
getting to theoretical here but I need
to clarify a few things in order to come
up with an answer
the goal of stoicism is happiness also
called eudaimonia which consists of
living in agreement with nature which
equals living a life of virtue
thus a moral life according to the
Stoics eudaimonia nism naturalism and
moralism are inseparable the one
requires the other so we could say that
doing the right thing makes one happy
and being happy is in agreement with
nature and is the right thing the
question I would immediately ask is what
is the right thing and why is this
important
sixteenth century Dutch jurist historian
and author hugo de haut also known
worldwide as odious or Croesus had a
keen interest in stoicism Croesus also
believed in a natural right a natural
right means that we as human beings have
a natural tendency to know what is
morally appropriate and what isn't
according to Gracias this is what the
stoats mean with okay osis that we can
translate as appropriation which means
that humans are naturally inclined to
certain actions and goals that mainly
revolve around preservation of
themselves and their surroundings if
from this inclination we see certain
actions as morally right we have a
natural basis for justice simply boot
according to gracias it's in our nature
to act in ways that are just and thus
the Stowe is considered justice as an
agreement with nature therefore it's not
surprising that justice is one of the
four cardinal virtues in stoicism
together with moderation courage and
wisdom so if we go back to the question
it seems that being politically active
voting and even participating in
pacifist strikes is quite in line with
stoicism when it supports justice
injustice is a stoic vice it's an evil
against humanity so taking a stance
against injustice is a stoic thing to do
in regards to violent strikes as an
answer to injustice I'm a bit reserved
let's say that violence is used against
humanity from a place of injustice when
it comes to justice it probably isn't a
good idea to harm other people according
to the Stoics at least this is what I
concluded after consulting the
literature stoicism has its roots in the
philosophy of Socrates in the first book
of Plato's Republic Socrates argues that
it isn't just to treat anyone badly even
when we consider them as enemies true
justice should be beneficial to all
including the person who is just harming
others therefore isn't just that's why I
don't think that participating in
violent riots is a very stoic thing to
do but let me know in the comment
section what you think about this also
if we would go along with grossest and
as believed in a natural basis for the
pursuit of justice we can say that we as
human beings are naturally inclined to
engage in the actions listed by once a
man Grolsch is believed that humans are
social and political animals and it's in
our nature to be politically active and
pursue the right thing for ourselves and
our fellow human beings when we look at
what's happening all around the world
all the time I think he has a point
human beings seem to be natural
activists but I should add that this
doesn't mean that all activism is
just now the next question is of course
how do we unify activism with the stoic
pursuit of caring less about the things
that are not in our control let's take a
look at epictetus famous quote from the
enchiridion things in our control our
opinion pursuit desire aversion and in a
word whatever are our own actions things
not in our control our body property
reputation command and in one word
whatever are not our own actions end
quote
in regards to justice I think that the
focus should be our own actions acting
in a way that is just or in the favor of
justice without attaching too much to
the outcome and keeping a calm mind
during our pursuits amor fati is the
love of fate embracing whatever the
outcome is which also leaves room to
continue living virtuously it's a middle
way between the pursuit of what's right
and the attachment of what's wrong and
it not up to us even though these are
opposites they don't exclude each other
I believe that if we don't get struck by
hardship we're actually more resilient
in the pursuit of justice I hope this
answers your question once a month again
thanks everyone for the 50 thousand for
the patreon edition of the Q&A you will
find a link in the description thank you
for watching
[Music]